So hopefully now,
you've all had a little bit of time to
practice thinking lexicographically.
Thinking in terms of how
strings have strings sort and
how you can pull down ranges of keys.
So, I'm gonna show you an example for
how that might map to a more kind
of like traditional web app.
So, for example,
if we wanna build something,
it's not the best example cuz we'll be,
okay, at this kind of stuff.
But if we wanna make a system
where's there's gonna be users and
there's gonna be posts,
you could imagine we might
use a prefix like user to
list all of our users.
And we can use a prefix key called
post to list all of the posts, and
right here, we're using
exclamation mark as a delimiter.
To sort of separate out where
the key prefix ends and
where the other part begins.
So the cool thing about
formatting data this way, here,
I can just copy this JSON file and we
can insert in a batch into our database.
And the cool thing about
this kind of data,
whoops, is that we can pull it apart with
greater than and less than keys.
So, what I'm gonna do right now
is I'm gonna insert this data
into the database with the batch.
And then I'm gonna show you
how you can use less than and
greater than to like pull down
a list of all of the users,
separately from pulling down
a list of all of the posts.
And like within those queries,
you can even like do sub queries,
like all of the users
whose names start with.
Like between M and P or
something like that.
It's a very small amount of data but
we can use our imaginations, I hope.
So, can just load the data?
I think, right, so it has keys and
values that should be fine to feed
directly into the batch function.
So I think I call it data.json.
We can set up our set up our database
into a directory called users.db,
and we can just db.batch that data.
Okay, so if I run this, it should just
insert the data into the database and
exit if everything went well, whoops.
I guess the data has the data.
>> And the line three.
>> Yeah, that should be a comma, I guess.
Okay, maybe it'll work now.
So if I run that program,
it should insert all of the data and exit.
There we go.
So now we have a file,
a directory users.db and
we can start to pick it
with create read stream.
So just go ahead and comment this part out
and stick it at the bottom in case you
want to replicate my results
when I put it into the repo.
So we can do db.createReadStream.
Maybe let's get a list of
all of the posts first.
So that's gonna look like is we
can use a greater than key for
post, exclamation mark, and
now we need an upper bound.
So that's our lower bound
post exclamation mark and
remember that keys that are shorter
will come before keys that are longer.
So now we just need an upper bound.
There's a few ways to do this
depending on whether you need,
whether there's gonna be unicode
characters and your keys or not.
If there aren't going to be
unicode characters in your keys,
what you need is just
some high ASCII value.
So you could do tilde is actually
pretty high up on the ASCII table.
So you'll see a lot of
people who use level DB,
they'll use tilde is all over the place.
Or you could do like uffff,
I think that would also work as well.
In case you have like
different kinds of characters.
I'm no unicode experts so
this is probably subtly wrong and
in slight ways but, yeah, maybe don't.
If you're gonna have unicode data,
maybe just convert it to base 64 hex
first before you dump it in a key.
Let's just use a tilde.
That's real nice.
All right, like before,
we'll pipe this into
just a little consumer
stream to print it out.
And make sure that you're consuming stream
that your, the writable stream that you're
piping into is in object mode again
cuz that's a common source of errors.
I know when I write this kind of code so.
Also if your stream only
seems to print one record,
you probably forgot to call next,
which I do also all the time accidentally.
So things to watch out for.
So here,
we have a list of all of the posts.
That's pretty good.
If we want to list out of the users,
we can also do that.
Right, and I guess I forgot to instantiate
the database with the value encoding JSON,
but whatever.
Close enough.